The federal government has designated
this National Yoga Month. If you have
any doubt about the good yoga can do,
listen to our story with a twist from
Ela Khano.
Spark your toes like fire them up. Dan
Neans commands his yoga class with
authority. Start to create the inner
fire right now. But for Neans, teaching
yoga is much more than a job. He says it
actually saved his life. 11 years ago,
while serving in Iraq, an IED exploded
under his army vehicle. The blast
destroyed both his legs. I just remember
having this revelation like, I'm alive.
I'm alive. That I better do something to
keep it that way. He spent 18 months at
Walter Reed Medical Center. And with the
help of the Wounded Warrior Project, he
learned to climb mountains and play
golf. But two years ago, while
recovering from another surgery, he was
bedridden and started having flashbacks.
And those thoughts of u the not so great
experiences from combat just kept coming
back and I didn't get to the point of
suicide but I finally understood it in
those eight weeks at home and I knew
that I needed help. A friend suggested
yoga. I was like no. One, I'm a guy.
Two, I'm an army guy. Three, I don't own
any spandex. And no. He finally relented
and took the class. And I got in this
warrior one pose. I rooted down and I
felt
this real surge of energy from the earth
up into my body and like into my soul
and I shot up and I was like, "Oh my
god, I get it." It was like the earth
was saying, "Where have you been the
last 10 years?" Inhale. Last year he
completed yoga instructor training. It's
this infinite source of energy and I'm
telling you you can plug into it. Now
hundreds of people come to his classes
and I felt you know if he can do it
without legs like what's my excuse?
Happy baby pose. Neans hopes to reach
both veterans and nonveterans alike.
Namaste. A warrior on a mission to save
others.
Ela Kihano, CBS News, New